---
published: false
---
## Go to Pakistan

India is place of myriad colors. And buried in those depth & breadth of colors are billion opinions. So democracy comes naturally to India. Since India's birth as an independent independent nation, there's has been no coup by the military. Though democracy was arrested during the bleak period emergency, however it remerged soon. The chaos of India's democracy is nothing but a manifestation of her diversity. It is thereforce obvious that many of India's neighbouring countries suffer from occassional military coups as they lack diversity which is favorable for breeding totalitarianism. 

Such diversity also beckons conflicting opinions. With a billion people coexisting with plethora of customs, privilige & religion, it is but natural that not a single opinion could dictate over whole of India. Like beef may be a objectionable in much of north India, however even Hindus in states Goa, Kerala, North East, etc savor beef. Jeans for girls may be considered inappropriate by Khap Panchayat, however much of urban Indians have begun to tolerate girs with jeans. So even the definition of morality is very complex & cannot be unilaterally imposed on rest of India. 

In such a complex diversity which boast of being liberal democracy,  it doesn't behoves CBFC, a statutory censorship and classification body, to refuse to dole out certificate to movies. Recently CBFC's axe fell on "Lipstick Under My Burkha". The CBFC cited the “lady oriented” story that puts “fantasy above life” and contains “sexual scenes, abusive words, audio pornography and a bit sensitive touch about one particular section of society.” Reading this news aroused my curiosity to find out what was so sensitive about our so called "sanskari society". 

I had a brisk conversation with a friend of mine on this censorship, who was convinced such movies be banned. He argued, "Such movies have bad influence in our Indian society. It is a vicious insinuation to insult the Burkha, an attire worn by millions of women of a particular faith." On my suggestion that the movie has garnered Spirit of Asia Prize & Oxfam Award for Best Film on Gender Equality, he shrugged off as "corrupt western society demeaning Indian culture". 

This conversation left me bewildered as I always expected liberal views from educated people. But it dawned to me the such notions is quite prevalent in Indian subcontinent. We often view western society with "loose morals" & belive that our society is high in the pedastal with respect to morality. However even educated people become defensive when an unpopular opininon is expressed. With the advent of internet & high decibel India's news media, conlicting opinions are often decimated. 

Similar is the issue of enforcing marital rape in India. It is difficult, even for educated people, to grasp the idea of "marital rape". "How can a husband rape his wife?", once a guy replied to me, quietly supressing his laugh for such a lunatic question. More than hundred liberal developed countries have criminalized marital rape. Only 36 countries still carries the baggage of depriving women autonomy to their bodies. Well India shares this wonderful club of 36 countries such as Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Nigeria, etc. Even a poor Himalayan country has made "marital rape" illegal. 

Though I am yet to watch "Lipstick Under my Burkha", yet I believe it will be a strong female oriented movie. Female oriented movies are rarity not only in India but also across the world. An interesting test to guage gender portrayal is Bechdel test. It asks whether a work of fiction features at least two women or girls who talk to each other about something other than a man or boy. it seems most of the movies fails this test. 

Under the garb of certification, CBFC is involeved in moral policiing & thus curbing the freedom of expression of filmakers. Some movies provide masala entertainment for the masses, while some should a mirror reflecting ills in our society. Pahlaj Nihalani, would not object to the beautiful cinematography of routine masala movies like "Befikre" which bagged "U/A" certificate despite having so many kissed. While a beautiful movie "Aligarh" receives "A" certificate because  it as based on true story of Dr Shrinivas Ramchandra Siras, who was discriminately fired from Aligrah Muslim University for homosexuality. Is the mere dipiction of homosexuality more offensive to Indian masses than kisses & item songs which are staple part of Indian commercial movies? 

Aamir Khan, a popular Bollywood actor, had recently experienced a angry backlash. In an interview he was asked, is India becoming intolerant? Like a free citizen of India, he exercised his fundament right to express his opinion. In he quoted saying that he was "alarmed" by a number of incidences and his wife Kiran Rao even suggested that they should probably leave the country. This insensed many people who asked for his boycott. Some parties like Shiv Sena had the audacity to ask him to "go to Pakistan". [1](http://www.thehindu.com/news/national/aamir-khan-can-go-to-pakistan-says-shiv-sena/article7913386.ece), notwithstanding the type of patriotic movies he made like "Rang De Basanti" & social shows like "Satyamev Jayate" & with a history of philanthrophy. 

Not far from our neighbourhood, Valentine day has been banned. The court said it was against Islamic culture. Such decision has not bolstered an already fragile image of Pakistan but exposed "regressive mindset" prevalent there. In India we are also blessed to have Bhajranga dal, who been regulalry harassing couples & protesting against Valentines' Day. They consider this as the most pressing issue in India. 

I believe Aamir Khan is one of assets of India which we cannot trade with any country. On the contrary I would suggest Pehlaj Nihani & Bhajrang Dal to migrate to Pakistan so they can find like minded = people who willl swoon over his idea of censorship & imposing of culture. Consider going to Pakistan, wahan bahoot scope hain.
