---
published: false
---

## What if Dehradun was in Nepal?

The British had a war with Nepal form 1814 to 1816. It's called Anglo-Nepalese War. Nepal ceded teritory to Britian which included Dehradun, Kumaun & Nainital by signing a treaty called, Treaty of Sugauli. In an alternate universe, had Nepal wond the war against the British, Dehradun would have been in Nepal. Since Mom, Dad & me were all born in Dehradun, we would have been Nepalese citizen except you (since you were born in Jodhpur). 

Most of the boundaries in the world are man-made. Earth doens't have any boundaries. Border are mostly man-made due to accident of history. It reminds of a old Sanskrit phrase, "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam" which means the world is one family.

Here's a tweet from Nehru from his book, Glimpses of World History.


Recently there has been political tension between Indian and Nepal. In 2020, the Nepal government led by K P Sharma Oli introduced a constitutional amendment which made changes to the Nepali map.The new map claimed the Kalapani region as a part of the Dharchula district in Nepal. The update also claimed the Lipulekh pass and the area of Limpiyadhura for Nepal. The Kalapani territory is an area under Indian administration as part of Pithoragarh district in the Uttarakhand state. 

India and Nepal are both Hindu majority countries yet have border dispute. Afghanistan and Pakistan are Muslim majority countries yet have contention accross Durand Line. It seems common religion often doesnt create cordial relationship and bonhomie among countries.


## Sick man of Europe

The Ottoman Empire in 1914 was commonly known as 'the sick man of Europe', a sign that the once-great power was crumbling. Usually it can refere to any European nation that is experiencing a time of economic difficulty or impoverishment.

Ottomon Empire is also interesting from an Indian prespective. Khilafat Movement was a political protest by Muslims in British India against the fall of Ottomon Empire. It was a campaign to defend the caliphate. Mahatma Gandhi supported Khilafat movement however he was also criticized for mixing religion and non-coopeartion movement. 

## Have you read Lord Byron

Probably you might have read the poems of Lord Byron. One of my favourite is "Prisoner of Chillan".  H



