---
published: false
---

Currently I am reading Collected Works of Mahatma Gandhi. 

## Gandhi Advice to a Congress Worker on Devipur Feb, 1947

A grand reception had been arranged for Gandhiji at Devipur. The village was decorated with flags, buntings, streamers and garland of yarn. It jarred on Gandhiji. He said these words, "I wouldn't have felt so hurt if, instead of floral decoartions, you had presented me with garlands of yarn. They are decorative, and afterwards can be used for making cloth also. So nothing is wasted. It seems there is a lot of money in this village. Otherwise you would never have thought of making such costly ephemeral garlands in these hard times."

Mahatma Gandhi was known to live life frugally. It's suprising that this speech was given on 1947 and we still have lavish garland are given to our politicans. I wish our present politicians not only do a lip service to Gandhi.

## Letter to Hari Singh Gour
Hari Singh Gour was a distinguised Indian lawyer, educationalist, and social reformer. He opposed Indian Penal Code, "No civilized country today imposes such heavy sentences as does the Indian Penal Code. Heavy sentences have long gone out of fashion in England and the order of sanctity and perfection attaching to the Penal Code should not deter indigenous legislatures to thoughly revise the sentences, bringing them into conformity with modernized, civilized standards". He belived solitary confinement as a form of punishment under section 73 of the Indian Penal code lacked rational basis.

"My own way of thinking always tells me that everything which has intrinsic merit succeeds sooner than later becuase it is like a straight line which is the shortest distance between two points"