---
layout: post
title: Dear Vishi, daily logs for Dec 27, 2023
category: blog
tags:
  - diary
  - letters
thumb: https://unsplash.com/photos/wbXdGS_D17U/download?w=800
image: https://unsplash.com/photos/wbXdGS_D17U/download?w=800
author: Tushar Sharma
published: true
---

Dear Vishi, this is my daily log for Dec 27, 2023.<!-- truncate_here -->

Dear Vishi, this is my daily log for Dec 27, 2023.

What is the purpose of life? I'm not sure. But what about the purpose of a day? That's easier to answer. Each day follows a similar cycle: you wake up, go to the bathroom, eat, drink, and sleep. Then there are the chores that need to be done, such as grocery shopping, filing taxes, etc. What about the rest of your time? Perhaps you could watch something, listen to music, develop some skills, pursue a hobby, or connect with people. As the day ends, what remains are the memories of what you did and the regrets over things you couldn't complete or even attempt.

Today, we visited the USPS to get a money order. Yesterday, we were frantically searching for a money order like headless chicken accross stores like CVS, Walgreens and Harris Teeter. It seemed that the money order machines were down everywhere. I had no idea what that meant.

I skipped the gym today and I'm feeling pretty awful about it. To make matters worse, I lost my AirPods again. Going to the gym without music feels dull and demotivating, which seemed like a good enough excuse for me to forgive myself. Fortunately, I managed to find them using the **Find My** app. Hopefully, I'll make it to the gym tomorrow, or else I'll need to come up with another good excuse!

I use **wsl** linux terminal on my Windows Computer. I got stuck on the terminal because there was a typo in the `.bashrc` file and I couldn't terminate it or return to terminal. The fix was simple as to open the Ubuntu File System on Windows by going to the following location:

```
\\wsl$\Ubuntu\home\YourUsername
```

YouUserName is your actual Window username.

I also installed `oh-my-zsh` on the terminal with **powerlevel10k** theme. I keep the copy of my dotfiles [here](https://github.com/tushar-sharma/dotfiles).


<iframe
  style="position: relative;  width: 100%;"
   height="400"
	   src="{{ root_url }}/encrypted/{{ page.path | split:'/'  | last | replace: '.md' '' }}.html"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
  title="Sample"
></iframe>