---
layout: post
title: Weekly logs from Dec 25 to Dec 31, 2023
image: https://unsplash.com/photos/8rj4sz9YLCI/download?w=800
thumb: https://unsplash.com/photos/8rj4sz9YLCI/download?w=800
author: Tushar Sharma;
category: blog
published: true
tags:
  - diary
  - letters
google_sheet_url: "https://sheets.googleapis.com/v4/spreadsheets/1Xb4wV0AOQiGWwXaciIBX-rkFebzg8DlAcRcClshyAnA/values/Habits!A1:T8?alt=json&key=AIzaSyCgYRKf_apK3TUSYGO9WhQ5dN-ukY4H0gw"
---

Dear Vishi, this is my weekly logs from Dec 25,2023 to Dec 31, 2023.<!-- truncate_here -->

## Snapshot of my habits

{% include habits.html %}

## Daily logs

### Dec 29, 2023

I forgot the credentials of jenkins running at my `localhost:8080` on Mac. So an easier way is to disable authentication by editing the file : `/Users/<USERNAME>/.jenkins/config.xml` and set the `useSecurity` to false

```xml
<useSecurity>false</useSecurity>
```

Next restart the server:

```zsh
$ brew services
$ brew services restart jenkins
```

### Dec 28, 2023

Gradle uses `GRADLE_USER_HOME` environment variable to determine where to store its cache and configuration files. So in our groovy pipeline we can set it like 

```groovy
pipeline {
    environment {
        GRADLE_USER_HOME="/home/jenkins/.gradle/${env.JOB_NAME}"
    }
}
```

A study in PLOS Medicine (2015) reported that overweight individuals who are physically active have a lower risk of mortality than normal-weight individuals who are inactive. So that means that a overweight person who exercises regularly would outlive a skinny person who doesn't exercises. So that's a motivation I need for the new year since weighing machine is a biggest let down for me.

### Dec 27, 2023

What is the purpose of life? I'm not sure. But what about the purpose of a day? That's easier to answer. Each day follows a similar cycle: you wake up, go to the bathroom, eat, drink, and sleep. Then there are the chores that need to be done, such as grocery shopping, filing taxes, etc. What about the rest of your time? Perhaps you could watch something, listen to music, develop some skills, pursue a hobby, or connect with people. As the day ends, what remains are the memories of what you did and the regrets over things you couldn't complete or even attempt.

Today, we visited the USPS to get a money order. Yesterday, we were frantically searching for a money order like headless chicken accross stores like CVS, Walgreens and Harris Teeter. It seemed that the money order machines were down everywhere. I had no idea what that meant.

I skipped the gym today and I'm feeling pretty awful about it. To make matters worse, I lost my AirPods again. Going to the gym without music feels dull and demotivating, which seemed like a good enough excuse for me to forgive myself. Fortunately, I managed to find them using the **Find My** app. Hopefully, I'll make it to the gym tomorrow, or else I'll need to come up with another good excuse!

I use **wsl** linux terminal on my Windows Computer. I got stuck on the terminal because there was a typo in the `.bashrc` file and I couldn't terminate it or return to terminal. The fix was simple as to open the Ubuntu File System on Windows by going to the following location:

```
\\wsl$\Ubuntu\home\YourUsername
```

YouUserName is your actual Window username.

I also installed `oh-my-zsh` on the terminal with **powerlevel10k** theme. I keep the copy of my dotfiles [here](https://github.com/tushar-sharma/dotfiles).


<iframe
  style="position: relative;  width: 100%;"
   height="400"
	   src="{{ root_url }}/encrypted/2023-12-27-daily-logs-2023-12-27.html"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
  allowfullscreen
  title="Sample">
  </iframe>
