---
layout: post
date: 2023-07-17
title: Daily Logs for 16 July 2023
image: /img/
thumb: /img/
author: ;
category: blog
---

.<!-- truncate_here -->

I am watching movie "Castle in the Sky" by Hayao Miyazaki online at [ytx](https://yts.mx/movies/castle-in-the-sky-1986). I came across this movie as the some theatres in the US were celebrating "Studio Ghibli Fest". This event provided fans of Studio Ghibli, a renowned Japanese animation studio, with the opportunity to experience some of their most beloved and iconic films on the big screen. However I am watching it on my TV.

I ate brussel sprouts today. I chopped them in half and marinated with olive oil and salt. I set the oven to a temperature of 425 degrees Fahrenheit and baked them for 20 minutes. May be I will modify this recipe.

I went to play table tennis today. The location was 501 N Tryon St, Charlotte, NC 28202. I found street parking. So this place is inside a church. I only paid $10 for daily pass. There is membership for $50 monthly. You need a fob to get inside the church. Since I am not a member yet, I posted on the whatsapp chat if someone could open the door for me. However it was late Sunday evening, and no body came. I waited for 15 minutes and was almost leaving when some folks were coming out of the church. I went to the third floor which was emtpy. I went to the fourth floor where lone asian guy was praticing. I asked him if wanted to play. We played two matches and I won none. His sidespin was fast for me to return. After two sets he probably got bored and asked me to go inside another room to pratice with the ping pong robot. I really liked praticing against ping pong robot. It's a great tool to pratice and improve your skills. I would purchase it later when I have my own ping pong table. 

I had a mock programming interview at [interviewing](https://start.interviewing.io/). He asked me [sliding window maximum](https://leetcode.com/problems/sliding-window-maximum/).

I ate pizza today from Dominos. I my usual order is Pacific Veggie with crunchy thin curst. I'll customize veggies and reduce cheese.