---
layout: post
date: {}
title: 'Daily Logs for August 16, 2024'
image: /img/g s
thumb: /img/g s
author: Tushar Sharma;
category: blog
published: false
---

.<!-- truncate_here -->

### Picking a stock

It's been months since I bought any stocks. Recently I sold $SAIC stock. But picking a stocks is a tedious process for me. I want to invest in stock \$ ETF this month.

First I calculate at the moving average for each stocks. I have generated this [report](https://drive.google.com/file/d/11WyMo0tQX6McQNdktcvpav30tlZSJg7p/view?usp=sharing) and will analyze it.

Another filter I try use is to pick stocks with dividend. Even if the stocks plummet in its value, you can still grow your portfolios by reinvesting dividend.

### Commute to office

It takes me almost 30 minutes to reach to office. Most of the time I am stuck at morning traffic. I have few options how to utilitze this time while on car

1. Call home (talk to parents at Indian time)

2. Listen to music. (I have huge collection on Google Drive)

3. Listen to audiobooks.

4. Watch a movie.

5. Listen to pink/white noise.

6. Learn spanish.

Watching a movie always make me nervous as it may not be legal to watch while drive. Even audiobooks distracts me while driving. I have sleep apnea so I dont like talking to anyone in the morning. If I was commuting on a train, I would probably add reading. So it boils down to these choices. 

1. Listen to music. 

2. Listen to pink/white noise. 

3. Learn Spanish.


### ESPP contribution

An employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) is a company-run program in which participating employees can purchase company stock at a discounted price.

I have contributed 7% of my paycheck. I will need to read more about it to understand more.

### Reading ng-book 

A component code look like this 

```js
@Component({
  selector: 'inventory-app-root',
  template: `
  <div class="inventory-app">
     (Products will go here soon)
  </div>
`
})
export class AppComponent {
  // Inventory logic here
}
```

Here, `@Component` is called a decorator. It adds metadata to the class.
