## Magnesium

I usually take two vitamins supplements : 

* B12 on empty stomach

* D3 with food

Saw some tweets like [JonLOCKD](https://twitter.com/JonLOCKD/status/1771474009646895565) and [foundmyfitness](https://twitter.com/foundmyfitness/status/1773769975083483484). 

Question? Can't we get magnesium from food? I checked foods like spinach, banana, avacado, braccoli, etc which are good sources of magnesium.

Or do we need to take supplements? Big pharmas have huge incentive to promote supplements. Do supplements really help if a person doesn't have any acute deficiency or eats a healthy diet?

But what about scientific studies? Can't take any scientific study at prima facie. Problem with it

1. Peer reviewed. That's a starting point. But that's not enough?

2. Who's funding the research? Like clinical studies funded by wine companies on benefits of red wine should raise eyebrows.

3. Sample Size? Tested on just 100 people hmm.

4. Replicability and Counter Studies


## First Man Movie

Watched it. 

Things I liked : 

1. Visual of the movie are good. The rocket launches look realistic

Things I didn't like

1. Less focus on rocket science. 

2. Abrubt ending

## Turkey E-visa

Applying for Turkey e-visa is super convenient. You need following conditions to quality : 

* My passport covers the period that I will be staying in Türkiye.

* I can prove that I hold a return ticket, hotel reservation and at least 50 $ per each day of my stay.

* I am travelling for the purposes of tourism or business.

* I have a valid Supporting Document (Valid visa OR valid residence permit from one of the Schengen Countries, USA, UK or Ireland). E- visas are not accepted as supporting documents.

## Game betting

## PIE.ZAA 

Location : 1440 S Tryon St #103, Charlotte, NC 28203

There's a lunch special offer where you get the second slice half the price. Ordered two Garden slice. The order was late. Didn't like it. Wont repeat it.

## Kafka Traces


## Holi

## Filing Taxes 

This year used freetaxusa.com instead of Turbotax as its cheaper. Turbotax mostly did stocks for me. Here I had to manually add short and long term stocks from 1099-B form. The federal filing is free and the state filing is $15.
