---
layout: post
title: Daily Logs for Aug 16, 2025
thumb: https://unsplash.com/photos/BVyzjR1AcOI/download?w=437
image: https://unsplash.com/photos/BVyzjR1AcOI/download?w=437
author: tushar sharma
category: blog
tags:
 - gunnar
 - mac
 - blue light
 - online
---

Dear Vishi, my logs for today.<!-- truncate_here -->

Dear Vishi, my logs for today.

## Gunnar Glasses

I accidently ordered glasses using my credit card. Since I have a doctor's prescription, I should have used HSA card.

There is a [contact page](https://gunnar.com/pages/contact) where you can cancel an order. Not sure if this would refund the amount.

I also dropped an email to `support@gunnars.com`

## Still color for MacOS

What's a temporal dithering?

Copying it from [here](https://github.com/waydabber/BetterDisplay/wiki/Eye-care:-prevent-PWM-and-or-temporal-dithering):

> Temporal dithering is a technique to produce more colors than what a display's panel (or display connection) can support (for example showing colors with 10 bit color depth - "billions of colors" - on an 8 bit - "millions of colors" - panel). When the display does not have the capability to show the full color depth, it will emulate missing colors by rapidly change between two adjacent color levels thus creating a middle ground.

First check status using this command:

```bash 
ioreg -lw0 | grep -i enableDither
"enableDither" = Yes
"enableDither" = Yes
"enableDither" = Yes
"enableDither" = Yes
```

* Go to StillColors' [download](https://github.com/aiaf/Stillcolor/releases) page and download zip like `Stillcolor-v1.1.zip`

* Move it to Application 

```bash 
mv Stillcolor.app ~/Application
```

Now run the same command again to confirm:

```bash 
ioreg -lw0 | grep -i enableDither
"enableDither" = No
"enableDither" = No
"enableDither" = No
"enableDither" = No
```

* Launch StillColor from Launchpad

## Understanding Blue light from Computer

Visible light is all the light wavelength we can see with our eyes. e.g. 

* Red: ~620–750 nm (longest wavelength, lowest frequency)

* Blue: ~450–495 nm

* ...

* Violet: ~380–450 nm (shortest wavelength, highest frequency)

Blue wavelengths—which are beneficial during daylight hours because they boost attention, reaction times, and mood—seem to be the most disruptive at night [^quote]. Few suggestions

* Use dim red lights for night lights. Red light is less likely to shift circadian rhythm and suppress melatonin.

* Avoid looking at bright screens beginning two to three hours before bed.

* If you work a night shift or use a lot of electronic devices at night, consider wearing blue-blocking glasses or installing an app that filters the blue/green wavelength at night.

* Expose yourself to lots of bright light during the day, which will boost your ability to sleep at night, as well as your mood and alertness during daylight.

Why does computer produces lot of blue lights? Screens produce a lot of blue light mainly because of how LEDs work. White light from LEDs is made by blue light + phosphor, not by blending all colors equally. This makes the blue spike stronger than in natural sunlight.

## Online

Saw this tweet[^tweet] from Tulsi Gabbard:

> To all celebrating Janmashtami around the world, I send you my aloha and best wishes on this most auspicious day.  Jai Sri Krishna!

## Footnotes

[^quote]: [Blue light has a dark side](https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/blue-light-has-a-dark-side)
[^tweet]: [Tulsi Gabbard](https://x.com/TulsiGabbard/status/1956698139928174915)
